---
layout: post
title: FastHax: Homing Pigeon Pattern
tags: path xdg
---

# Homing Pigeon Pattern
Raise your hand if you have run into the following situation. You have a codebase, 
located in userspace, and you need to load some files from that codebase from a 
bunch of different places. You can't guarantee the location of that directory across
instances/containers, but you still really want a $REPO_DIR variable you can hit to 
serve as the root of various relative paths. 

There are *a lot* of ways to solve this problem. Probably too many. I believe I have 
found, perhaps not the **One True Pattern**, but at least a **Rather Good Pattern** 
for dealing with this.

### Put your configs in $CONFIG_HOME
It's basically that simple. 

There are cross-platform libraries ([go](https://godoc.org/github.com/Wessie/appdirs), 
[python](https://github.com/ActiveState/appdirs)) 
for what is usually called something like `$CONFIG_HOME`.
On linux, it's usually at `$HOME/.config`, and often can be overridden by setting 
`$XDG_CONFIG_HOME`. I still haven't figured out exactly where the best spot to initialize
this variable is, so for now, I tend to ignore it and just dump configs to 
`$HOME/.config/myapp/config.yml`

This works great out of the box and saves a ton of headache (trust me). But let's say
you still really want to locate the repo directory?

### Breadcrumbs back to the repo

Put this file in the root of your repo: 

**repo_dir.sh:**
```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
HEREDIR=$(cd "$(dirname $(realpath ${0}))" && pwd)  # Reliably get the filename and dir
echo ${HEREDIR}  # pure function scripts are better than source-ing
```

Symlink it to your known config location: 
```bash
ln -sf /path/to/your/app_repo/repo_dir.bash ~/.config/appname/
```

And access it from any script like such: 
```bash
REPO_DIR=$(~/.config/appname/repo_dir.sh)
```
   
 The linking step can be automated with a script which similarly uses the HEREDIR script to
 locate the repo in the first place, and then dump the link to `.config`. Links vs copying
 also let you bind-mount your source code inside the container to allow for rapid 
 development and debugging in-situ.  
 
## Better options
Overall, you are probably better off using something like Consul to manage your configs 
using the dns and kv store features. But that can be a bit cumbersome.  